+++
title = "Rust For A Rusty Game Developer"
date = 2019-01-02T21:18:00-07:00

[taxomonies]
tags = ["rust", "coding"]
+++

Rust is my first foray into a systems programming language since
highschool and even then I never went in past my toes.<!-- more -->
I remember wanting to learn C++, because that's what the
professional game developers were using. I was an impatient
teenager though — I just wanted to make games — and I ended up
settling with an ActionScript 3 library called FlashPunk. I used
AS3 a lot and did end up learning a lot of foundational
programming concepts through it. When I went to college I jumped
back to the web (my stomping ground), because there weren’t a
lot of ways I knew how to use my game development skills.
Everyone needed a website, so I embraced my new role as
everyone’s web developer.

## Why a systems programming language?

Over the last 4-5 years, I have become obsessed with speed and
performance. How did I become this way? By living in a rural
town in the middle of nowhere Saskatchewan for 4 years. When I
got there I didn’t have any cell reception and the WiFi was
horrible and though it did improve during my time there, I
became keenly aware of the frustrations of living with a
sub-sub-par Internet connection.

## Why Not C++?

When I was deciding to into a deeper programming language, I
first jumped to C++ because I had some familarity with it and it
is so popular. It was hard to feel like I was getting anywhere
after a week though. I had become accustomed to the ecosystems
that I knew from Node and PHP, but there seemed to be no such
thing for C++. I realized that the language was pre-Internet and
it didn’t have the opportunity for a centralized ecosystem to
catch on — by the time the Internet came around everyone had
developed their own ways of managing dependencies. **Attempting
to learn C++ was a lonely experience.** I needed something that
had a thriving ecosystem if I was going to catch any sort of
momentum in my learning.

## Why Rust?

I had heard of Rust through following [Yoshua Wuyts on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/yoshuawuyts). I had discovered him
through being a fly on the wall in the communities that
surrounded Tachyons and functional CSS. Since I trusted his
fascination with performance, I became interested in Rust and it
was the first language that came to mind when I started feeling
lonely learning C++. Rust was very much the opposite of what I
found with C++: the community is thriving, there are plenty of
official, well maintained resources for learning the language,
the ecosystem is well established — despite being a relatively
young language — and the tooling is fantastic. **While Rust can
feel like a decently steep learning curve, the community and
ecosytem cushion that, make it easy to gain momentum when
learning.**